---
title: SCSS Loops in Styles -- Very Convenient!
published: 2025-10-11
tags: [No Brain Coding, SCSS]
category: Skye Codes
draft: false
---

# Learning SCSS

This would be the first post about SCSS so I better explain why would I start getting into it. One of the reasons that I got into SCSS was that because I've always thinking to build an app using the Quasar framework. Since I grew up with CSS (not literally but yeah, everyone starts from HTML, CSS and JS when they first start coding, I guess?), I wonder what differences would there be between SCSS and CSS.

# Today's New Concept: Looping on Styles and Classes

You can use **loops** to handle classes with similar property structures, so that you don't have to copy and paste your code then just to make slight changes everytime, that eventually causes you to be left with 200 CSS classes, which the only difference between them is the background colour, and an unreasonably long CSS style sheet. 

This method goes especially well when you are trying to make a **theme picker**. As making different themes means all you have to tinker with is just the colours with designated categories (i.e. primary, secondary, background colours, etc.) Let's say we have the below colour themes:

- Red
- Green
- Blue

First we create a variable `$themes` that consists of all the themes that we'd like to create:

```scss
$themes : ('red', 'green', 'blue');
``` 

Then we make a loop of it, splitting the three items inside `$themes`:

```scss
$themes : ('red', 'green', 'blue');

@each $theme in $themes { 
    .theme-#{$theme} { 
        /*Put your styles here */
    }
}
```
Where the `#{$theme}` holds the items in `$themes` (i.e. 'red', 'green', or 'blue'), so it would read `.theme-red` if it loops to handle the red theme.

Now back to the `$themes`, we would like to define styles for each of them as below:

```scss
$themes : (
    'red': (
        primary: red;
        secondary: white;
    ), 
    'green': (
        primary: green;
        secondary: grey;
    ), 
    'blue': (
        primary: blue;
        secondary: black;
    )
);
```
Please ignore my terrible choices of colours. It's hard to come up with some nice combinations :(

So next, we would be doing a loop inside the first `@each` loop that we've created. The purpose of the second loop is to loop through the types (in our case, `primary` and `secondary`) and the values of it (i.e. the colours), then to use them to create new styling types: *the background colours.*

A reminder, you will have to put `$colors` in the first loop together with `$themes`, if not the code will fail to catch the colour values. Unlike types that are consistently defined throughout different themes, each themes have a different colour assigned to the same types. 

```scss
@each $theme, $colors in $themes { 
    .theme-#{$theme} { 
       @each $type, $color in $colors {
        .bg-#{$type} {
            background: $color;
        }
       }
    }
};
```
In that case, `.bg-#{$theme}` would be read as `.bg-primary` or `bg-secondary` depending on which of the above type the loop is handling, and the background colour would be the colours defined in the types `primary` or `secondary` that we've set earlier in `$themes`.

Now the above code in CSS should be reading like this:

```css
.theme-red .bg-primary {
    background: red;
}

.theme-red .bg-secondary {
    background: white;
}
```
And that's right, with this loop we've skipped the process to style (3 coloured theme * 2 colour categories = ) 6 class combinations. By simply defining their `primary` and `secondary` properties.

There's much to tinker with SCSS, and this is just a simple method that I've learned today. [Say thanks to Danny whose video taught me that!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yUUdhCpOCFY&list=PLAiDzIdBfy8gRLnMGvfm6NWHHKwFOzmrV&index=2&t=283s)

Thanks to all who read until the end. Y'all awesome people and hope you find loads of fun on the way learning to code! :)