---
title: Kick Flight - Extracting Decrypted Assets in Unity
published: 2025-10-27
tags: [No Brain Coding, Python, Unity]
category: Skye Codes
draft: false
---

# Prologue: The Beginning of the Story

So, how did I ended up here?

It has to go back to the time when I received an announcement that a member in the discord server reversed engineered the encrypted assets of Kick Flight, a game that has been shutted down for a long time. By working with the [XOR encryption](/posts/20251011-1) (pls change the path I beg you), the developer happened to decrypted and obtained the assets that were supposed to only be storing in the game server. After receiving an invite from him to access the github repo of a tool to extract the assets, I began my journey on learning to extract decrypted assets in Unity. 

# What Does the Tool Does?

Straight-foward enough, the tool itself is an extractor which decrypt, decompress and extract the game assets from the game's custom-encrypted Unity bundles. It first removes the XOR encryption and reconstruct the Unity bundle headers (more to explain), extracts the [LZ4](/posts/20251011-1)-compressed asset data blocks, then parse and export 3D meshes, texture and materials of the game models.

# Preparation Before Working Stuff Out

The tool itself uses [UnityPy](tbc) to export the assets, with LZ4 as the library on the data block compression. Now I'll first clone the repo into my computer, then install the below packages with the following commands:

```python
pip install lz4 UnityPy
```

# Running the Script

The author provided a python script that automatically decrypts and extracts the resources, with an error report .json file for the user to catch any errors with the error code explained. Below I'll try to run the python script by typing its file name after the command `python`.

```python
python asset_extractor.py
```
Now, let's just wait until the extraction completed.

(P.S.: I'll probably find a chance to try interpreting the script with my limited knowledge of python, and explain them in my own words as a process of learning.)

# Viewing the Resource

While waiting for the script to extract the assets, I downloaded the corresponding Unity version (In my case would be Unity 2018.4.11f1). I didn't mess with installing VS Code Community 2017 as I'm not gonna do anything with it, my main objective is to make the models accessible.

After installation completed, it is the time for me to import the assets into Unity! I'm  glad that the script worked and the models could be viewed, although few of the files went corrupted or failed to be decrypted.

It was such a simple action for a user like me to decrypt the game assets, but the effort being put into the development of this decrytion tool and looking for the decrypted assets could not be counted. Kudos to the author of this tool, [Gixarde3](https://github.com/Gixarde3)!
